add page for pxctl auth (#310)
portworx/pxdocs: content/reference/CLI/authorization.md

---
title: Authorization using pxctl
linkTitle: Authorization
keywords: Portworx, container, Kubernetes, storage, auth, authorization, authentication, login, token, OpenID Connect, OIDC, context, generate, self-signed, JWT, shared-secret, security
description: Learn to interact with your authorization-enabled Portworx cluster using pxctl
weight: 18
---

## Overview

This document outlines how to interact with an authorization-enabled Portworx cluster. The main way to do it is by using the `pxctl context` command. Also, you can integrate with an __OIDC provided token__ or __generate self-signed tokens__ through `pxctl`. See the [generate self-signed tokens](/reference/cli/self-signed-tokens) page for more details.

## Contexts

> Portworx stores your:

Reviewer: We shouldn't break a sentence in the middle with a bulleted list. format it like this instead: 

```suggestion
Portworx stores the following locally to your home directory, allowing you to switch between configurations with a few commands:

 - contexts
 - associated clusters
 - privileges
 - tokens
```

    endpoint: http://localhost:9001
```

> ### The current context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set the current context
```

> Once you created your contexts, use the `pxctl context` command to switch between them. Under the hood, Portworx reads your current context and then uses the associated token for all commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've created your contexts, use the `pxctl context` command to switch between them. Under the hood, Portworx reads your current context and then uses the associated token for all commands.
```

{{<info>}}
Alternatively, you can use the global `--context` flag to run a single command with a given context.
{{</info>}}

Use the following command to set the current context:

```text
pxctl context set <context>
```

Unset the current context with:

```text
pxctl context unset
```

## Generate tokens

Portworx supports two methods of authorization:

- OIDC and
- self-signed.

> To generate a token through your OIDC provider, see the documentation on generating bearer tokens on the website of the provider. As a reference, here is the relevant documentation for the most commonly used OIDC providers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a token through your OIDC provider, see the documentation on generating bearer tokens on the website of the provider. The following links direct you to the most commonly used OIDC providers:
```
